docs/HowTo/Get-Started/Installation-Options/Build-From-Source.md, before:

---
description: Build Teku from source
---

# Build from source

!!! important

    If you want to use the latest development version of Teku or a specific commit, build from
    source. Otherwise, use the [binary] or [Docker image] for more stable versions.

## Prerequisites

* [Java JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)

!!!important
    Teku requires Java 11+; earlier versions are not supported.

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) or [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/)
* [Gradle build tool](https://gradle.org/)

## Installation on Linux / Unix / MacOS X

### Clone the Teku repository

Clone the `Consensys/teku` repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Consensys/teku.git
```

### Build Teku

After cloning, go to the `teku` directory.

Build Teku with the Gradle wrapper `gradlew`, as follows:

```bash
./gradlew distTar installDist
```

!!! note
    The command produces an expanded distribution, ready to run
    in `build/install/teku`, and a `.tar` distribution in `build/distribution`.

Go to the `teku` directory:

```bash
cd build/install/teku
```

Display the Teku help to confirm installation:

````bash
bin/teku --help
````

!!! tip
    To view the list of available Gradle tasks, run `./gradlew tasks`

Continue with [Starting Teku](../Run-Teku.md).

<!-- links -->
[binary]: Install-Binaries.md
[Docker image]: Run-Docker-Image.md

Commit message:

Docusaurus (#429)
* refactor: docusaurus init

* feat: admonition 1

* fix: css banner text

* fix: favicon and logo

* feat: add some teku color in banner

* fix: admonition conversion

* feat: banner font clamp and gradient

* fix: light dark banner text

* fix: update gradient

* fix: tagline edit

* fix: linear gradient title

* fix: undo gradient title

* fix: better banner

* fix: subtitle pop in

* fix: no override

* fix: adjust wide clamp

* feat: add gtag and gtm

* fix: button text get started

* fix: bring in line to merge

* ci: skip case test

* fix: logo light dark

* fix: pr template

docs/HowTo/Get-Started/Installation-Options/Build-From-Source.md, after:

---
title: Build from source
description: Build Teku from source
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Build from source

:::caution

If you want to use the latest development version of Teku or a specific commit, build from source. Otherwise, use the [binary] or [Docker image] for more stable versions.

:::

## Prerequisites

- [Java JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)

:::caution

Teku requires Java 11+; earlier versions are not supported.

:::

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) or [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/)
- [Gradle build tool](https://gradle.org/)

## Installation on Linux / Unix / MacOS X

### Clone the Teku repository

Clone the `Consensys/teku` repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Consensys/teku.git
```

### Build Teku

After cloning, go to the `teku` directory.

Build Teku with the Gradle wrapper `gradlew`, as follows:

```bash
./gradlew distTar installDist
```

:::note

The command produces an expanded distribution, ready to run in `build/install/teku`, and a `.tar` distribution in `build/distribution`.

:::

Go to the `teku` directory:

```bash
cd build/install/teku
```

Display the Teku help to confirm installation:

```bash
bin/teku --help
```

:::tip

To view the list of available Gradle tasks, run `./gradlew tasks`

:::

Continue with [Starting Teku](../Run-Teku.md).

<!-- links -->

[binary]: Install-Binaries.md
[Docker image]: Run-Docker-Image.md
