docs/HowTo/Get-Started/Installation-Options/Install-Binaries.md, before:

---
description: Install Teku from binary distribution
---

# Install binary distribution

## Linux / Unix / macOS / Windows

### Prerequisites

* [Java JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)

!!! attention

    Teku requires Java 11+ to compile; earlier versions are not supported.

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
* If using Windows, install the [Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 security update](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=26999).

### Install from packaged binaries

Download the [Teku packaged binaries](https://github.com/ConsenSys/teku/releases).

Unpack the downloaded files and change into the `teku-<release>` directory.

Display Teku command line help to confirm installation:

=== "Linux/macOS"

    ```bash
    ./bin/teku --help
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```bat
    bin\teku --help
    ```

## macOS with Homebrew

### Prerequisites

* [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
* Java JDK.

!!!important

    Teku requires Java 11+ to run. Earlier versions are not supported. You can install Java
    using `brew cask install adoptopenjdk`. Alternatively, you can manually install the 
    [Java JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html).

### Install (or upgrade) using Homebrew

To install Teku using Homebrew:

```bash
brew tap ConsenSys/teku
brew install ConsenSys/teku/teku
```

To upgrade Teku using Homebrew:

```bash
brew upgrade ConsenSys/teku/teku
```

To display the Teku version and confirm installation:

```bash
teku --version
```

Commit message:

Docusaurus (#429)
* refactor: docusaurus init

* feat: admonition 1

* fix: css banner text

* fix: favicon and logo

* feat: add some teku color in banner

* fix: admonition conversion

* feat: banner font clamp and gradient

* fix: light dark banner text

* fix: update gradient

* fix: tagline edit

* fix: linear gradient title

* fix: undo gradient title

* fix: better banner

* fix: subtitle pop in

* fix: no override

* fix: adjust wide clamp

* feat: add gtag and gtm

* fix: button text get started

* fix: bring in line to merge

* ci: skip case test

* fix: logo light dark

* fix: pr template

docs/HowTo/Get-Started/Installation-Options/Install-Binaries.md, after:

---
title: Install binary distribution
description: Install Teku from binary distribution
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Install binary distribution

## Linux / Unix / macOS / Windows

### Prerequisites

- [Java JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)

:::caution

Teku requires Java 11+ to compile; earlier versions are not supported.

:::

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->

- If using Windows, install the [Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 security update](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=26999).

### Install from packaged binaries

Download the [Teku packaged binaries](https://github.com/ConsenSys/teku/releases).

Unpack the downloaded files and change into the `teku-<release>` directory.

Display Teku command line help to confirm installation:

<!--tabs-->

# Linux/macOS

```bash
./bin/teku --help
```

# Windows

```bat
bin\teku --help
```

<!--/tabs-->

## macOS with Homebrew

### Prerequisites

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- Java JDK.

:::caution

Teku requires Java 11+ to run. Earlier versions are not supported. You can install Java using `brew cask install adoptopenjdk`. Alternatively, you can manually install the [Java JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html).

:::

### Install (or upgrade) using Homebrew

To install Teku using Homebrew:

```bash
brew tap ConsenSys/teku
brew install ConsenSys/teku/teku
```

To upgrade Teku using Homebrew:

```bash
brew upgrade ConsenSys/teku/teku
```

To display the Teku version and confirm installation:

```bash
teku --version
```
