docs/get-started/checkpoint-start.md, before:

---
title: Start Teku from a recent state
description: Start Teku from a recent finalized state using checkpoint sync.
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Start Teku from a recent state

To get Teku up and running in only a few minutes, you can start Teku from a recent finalized checkpoint state rather than syncing from genesis.

When starting from a recent checkpoint, Teku downloads historic chain data in the background.

:::tip

You need access to a beacon node with [REST API enabled] (for example, Teku) to download the finalized checkpoint state file.

Alternatively, you can use a Checkpointz endpoint from [this community-maintained list of checkpoint state endpoints](https://eth-clients.github.io/checkpoint-sync-endpoints/).

:::

The following command downloads a recent finalized checkpoint state from a beacon node, and starts Teku:

```bash
teku --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validator-keys=/Users/me/mainnet/validator/keys:/Users/me/mainnet/validator/passwords \
--checkpoint-sync-url=https://beaconstate.ethstaker.cc
```

The command uses the [`--checkpoint-sync-url`](../reference/cli/index.md#checkpoint-sync-url) option to download the finalized checkpoint state.

:::note

You can also download a finalized checkpoint state file, and specify the location using the [`--initial-state`](../reference/cli/index.md#initial-state) option. To download the file and name it `state.ssz` run:

```bash
curl -o state.ssz -H 'Accept: application/octet-stream' http://other-node:5051/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/finalized
```

And to start Teku, run:

```bash
teku --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validator-keys=/Users/me/mainnet/validator/keys:/Users/me/mainnet/validator/passwords \
--initial-state=state.ssz
```

Another option is to use [`--initial-state`](../reference/cli/index.md#initial-state) with the URL of the state you want to use:

```bash
teku --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validator-keys=/Users/me/mainnet/validator/keys:/Users/me/mainnet/validator/passwords \
--initial-state=http://other-node:5051/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/finalized
```
:::

<!--links-->

[REST API enabled]: ../reference/cli/index.md#rest-api-enabled

Commit message:

Added documentation for --ignore-weak-subjectivity-period-enabled (#503)
Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <alexandratran@protonmail.com>

docs/get-started/checkpoint-start.md, after:

---
title: Start Teku from a recent state
description: Start Teku from a recent finalized state using checkpoint sync.
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Start Teku from a recent state

To get Teku up and running in only a few minutes, start Teku from a recent finalized checkpoint
state rather than syncing from genesis.
Using a checkpoint state enables Teku to sync within the
[weak subjectivity](../concepts/weak-subjectivity.md) period.

When starting from a recent checkpoint, Teku downloads historic chain data in the background.

:::tip
You need access to a beacon node with [REST API enabled] (for example, Teku) to download the
finalized checkpoint state file.

Alternatively, you can use a Checkpointz endpoint from
[this community-maintained list of checkpoint state endpoints](https://eth-clients.github.io/checkpoint-sync-endpoints/).
:::

The following command downloads a recent finalized checkpoint state from a beacon node, and starts Teku:

```bash
teku --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validator-keys=/Users/me/mainnet/validator/keys:/Users/me/mainnet/validator/passwords \
--checkpoint-sync-url=https://beaconstate.ethstaker.cc
```

The command uses the [`--checkpoint-sync-url`](../reference/cli/index.md#checkpoint-sync-url) option
to download the finalized checkpoint state.

:::note
You can also download a finalized checkpoint state file, and specify the location using the
[`--initial-state`](../reference/cli/index.md#initial-state) option.
To download the file and name it `state.ssz` run:

```bash
curl -o state.ssz -H 'Accept: application/octet-stream' http://other-node:5051/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/finalized
```

And to start Teku, run:

```bash
teku --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validator-keys=/Users/me/mainnet/validator/keys:/Users/me/mainnet/validator/passwords \
--initial-state=state.ssz
```

Another option is to use [`--initial-state`](../reference/cli/index.md#initial-state) with the URL
of the state you want to use:

```bash
teku --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validator-keys=/Users/me/mainnet/validator/keys:/Users/me/mainnet/validator/passwords \
--initial-state=http://other-node:5051/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/finalized
```
:::

<!--links-->

[REST API enabled]: ../reference/cli/index.md#rest-api-enabled
