docs/Concepts/Weak-Subjectivity.md, before:

---
description: Describe weak subjectivity
---

# Weak subjectivity

The weak subjectivity period refers to how far behind the chain head a node can be before 1/3 of
validators may have exited since the node was last in sync.

For example, if 1/3 of validators withdraw their stake and continue signing blocks and
attestations, they can form a chain which conflicts with the finalised state. If your node is far
enough behind the chain head not to be aware that they've withdrawn their funds, these validators
can act dishonestly and continue feeding you blocks to lead you down the wrong chain.

!!! note

    If a node is aware that a validator has withdrawn its funds, the node will reject the
    validator's attestations.

## Safely sync your node

Teku provides two methods to safely sync a node that is new to the network or has been offline for an extended period.

1. Use [`--initial-state`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#initial-state) to supply an SSZ encoded
    state file from which to sync.
2. Use [`--ws-checkpoint`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#ws-checkpoint) to supply a weak
    subjectivity checkpoint by which a node can securely validate its view of the current state.

We recommend using `--inital-state`.
It provides the same security benefits as `--ws-checkpoint`, but syncs faster.
The only exception is when syncing an archive node, in which case, use `--ws-checkpoint`.

!!! tip

    Use the [`/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/<state_id>`](https://consensys.github.io/teku/#operation/getEthV2DebugBeaconStatesWithState_id)
    API on an updated node to download a recent finalized state as an SSZ encoded state file.

Another option is to utilise the [Reconstruct Historical States Service](../HowTo/Reconstruct-Historical-States-Service.md).
This allows the creation of a full archive node, ensuring that once the node is up to date, the concerns associated with weak
subjectivity are cleared.

Commit message:

Docusaurus (#429)
* refactor: docusaurus init

* feat: admonition 1

* fix: css banner text

* fix: favicon and logo

* feat: add some teku color in banner

* fix: admonition conversion

* feat: banner font clamp and gradient

* fix: light dark banner text

* fix: update gradient

* fix: tagline edit

* fix: linear gradient title

* fix: undo gradient title

* fix: better banner

* fix: subtitle pop in

* fix: no override

* fix: adjust wide clamp

* feat: add gtag and gtm

* fix: button text get started

* fix: bring in line to merge

* ci: skip case test

* fix: logo light dark

* fix: pr template

docs/Concepts/Weak-Subjectivity.md, after:

---
title: Weab subjectivity
description: Describe weak subjectivity
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Weak subjectivity

The weak subjectivity period refers to how far behind the chain head a node can be before 1/3 of validators may have exited since the node was last in sync.

For example, if 1/3 of validators withdraw their stake and continue signing blocks and attestations, they can form a chain which conflicts with the finalized state. If your node is far enough behind the chain head not to be aware that they've withdrawn their funds, these validators can act dishonestly and continue feeding you blocks to lead you down the wrong chain.

:::note

If a node is aware that a validator has withdrawn its funds, the node will reject the validator's attestations.

:::

## Safely sync your node

Teku provides two methods to safely sync a node that is new to the network or has been offline for an extended period.

1. Use [`--initial-state`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#initial-state) to supply an SSZ encoded state file from which to sync.
2. Use [`--ws-checkpoint`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#ws-checkpoint) to supply a weak subjectivity checkpoint by which a node can securely validate its view of the current state.

We recommend using `--initial-state`. It provides the same security benefits as `--ws-checkpoint`, but syncs faster. The only exception is when syncing an archive node, in which case, use `--ws-checkpoint`.

:::tip

Use the [`/eth/v2/debug/beacon/states/<state_id>`](https://consensys.github.io/teku/#operation/getEthV2DebugBeaconStatesWithState_id) API on an updated node to download a recent finalized state as an SSZ encoded state file.

:::

Another option is to utilize the [Reconstruct Historical States Service](../HowTo/Reconstruct-Historical-States-Service.md). This allows the creation of a full archive node, ensuring that once the node is up to date, the concerns associated with weak subjectivity are cleared.
