docs/Concepts/Withdrawals.md, before:

---
description: Describe withdrawals
---

# Withdrawals

Validators staking ether on Mainnet after [The Merge](Merge.md), accrue 2 forms of rewards:

- Execution layer rewards paid directly to a withdrawal address (Ethereum address).
- Consensus layer rewards for performing actions each epoch.

The [Capella network upgrade](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-What-is-ShanghaiCapella)
implements an automated process that allows a validator's rewards to be transferred
from the consensus layer to an Ethereum address on the execution layer. Before the Capella
upgrade, consensus layer rewards were locked, and unable to be transferred to an Ethereum address.

!!! important

    When you create a validator, it's possible to set its withdrawal address to a
    [BLS address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature), or an Ethereum address.

    You can [update your BLS withdrawal address to an Ethereum address](../HowTo/Withdrawal-Keys.md)
    after the Capella upgrade.

You do not pay gas fees for receiving reward payments.

## Types of withdrawals

Two types of automated withdrawals occur once the withdrawal key is set up as an Ethereum address:
[partial withdrawals](#partial-withdrawals) and [full withdrawals](#full-withdrawals).

### Partial withdrawals

Partial withdrawals are for active validators that have a balance exceeding 32 ETH.
The network periodically makes transfers to the associated Ethereum address for validators with a balance
exceeding 32 ETH. This means that a validator's balance will periodically reduce to 32 ETH once Capella
becomes the active fork on the network.

### Full withdrawals

Full withdrawals are for validators that have exited the network, and have waited the necessary time to withdraw their funds.
For these validators, their entire balance is returned to the Ethereum address associated with the validator key.
The balance cannot be transferred until the validator key is associated with an Ethereum address.

An exited validator cannot become active on the network again, and currently (as of Capella),
there is no mechanism for recycling the validator ID that has been exited.

## How it works

From the first Capella slot, block proposers provide up to 16 withdrawals per proposed block.

Proposers start from validator 1, and find validators that qualify: must have an Ethereum address, must
have an excess balance, or have exited.

Block proposers select the withdrawals that go into the block. In each block, up to 16 changes to withdrawal
credentials are also allowed, where an owner of a validator key can
[update their withdrawal key's Ethereum address](../HowTo/Withdrawal-Keys.md). This update is retrieved from
a pool, and the order is not guaranteed.

## Withdrawal keys

Withdrawal keys that are configured as [BLS keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature)
cannot have automated withdrawals executed for them. Users must alter their credentials to specify an
Ethereum address for their withdrawal key.

BLS withdrawal keys are prefixed with `0x00`, whereas Ethereum withdrawal keys are prefixed with a `0x01`.

To determine the type of withdrawal key used by your validator, you can
[query your validator configuration onchain](../HowTo/Withdrawal-Keys.md#determine-the-withdrawal-key-type).

Commit message:

Add sentence about BLS withdrawal keys.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

docs/Concepts/Withdrawals.md, after:

---
description: Describe withdrawals
---

# Withdrawals

Validators staking ether on Mainnet after [The Merge](Merge.md), accrue 2 forms of rewards:

- Execution layer rewards paid directly to a withdrawal address (Ethereum address).
- Consensus layer rewards for performing actions each epoch.

The [Capella network upgrade](https://notes.ethereum.org/@launchpad/withdrawals-faq#Q-What-is-ShanghaiCapella)
implements an automated process that allows a validator's rewards to be transferred
from the consensus layer to an Ethereum address on the execution layer. Before the Capella
upgrade, consensus layer rewards were locked, and unable to be transferred to an Ethereum address.

!!! important

    When you create a validator, it's possible to set its withdrawal address to a
    [BLS address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature), or an Ethereum address. Withdrawal
    keys that are configured as BLS keys cannot have automated withdrawals executed for them.

    You can [update your BLS withdrawal address to an Ethereum address](../HowTo/Withdrawal-Keys.md)
    after the Capella upgrade.

You do not pay gas fees for receiving reward payments.

## Types of withdrawals

Two types of automated withdrawals occur once the withdrawal key is set up as an Ethereum address:
[partial withdrawals](#partial-withdrawals) and [full withdrawals](#full-withdrawals).

### Partial withdrawals

Partial withdrawals are for active validators that have a balance exceeding 32 ETH.
The network periodically makes transfers to the associated Ethereum address for validators with a balance
exceeding 32 ETH. This means that a validator's balance will periodically reduce to 32 ETH once Capella
becomes the active fork on the network.

### Full withdrawals

Full withdrawals are for validators that have exited the network, and have waited the necessary time to withdraw their funds.
For these validators, their entire balance is returned to the Ethereum address associated with the validator key.
The balance cannot be transferred until the validator key is associated with an Ethereum address.

An exited validator cannot become active on the network again, and currently (as of Capella),
there is no mechanism for recycling the validator ID that has been exited.

## How it works

From the first Capella slot, block proposers provide up to 16 withdrawals per proposed block.

Proposers start from validator 1, and find validators that qualify: must have an Ethereum address, must
have an excess balance, or have exited.

Block proposers select the withdrawals that go into the block. In each block, up to 16 changes to withdrawal
credentials are also allowed, where an owner of a validator key can
[update their withdrawal key's Ethereum address](../HowTo/Withdrawal-Keys.md). This update is retrieved from
a pool, and the order is not guaranteed.

## Withdrawal keys

Withdrawal keys that are configured as [BLS keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature)
cannot have automated withdrawals executed for them. Users must alter their credentials to specify an
Ethereum address for their withdrawal key.

BLS withdrawal keys are prefixed with `0x00`, whereas Ethereum withdrawal keys are prefixed with a `0x01`.

To determine the type of withdrawal key used by your validator, you can
[query your validator configuration onchain](../HowTo/Withdrawal-Keys.md#determine-the-withdrawal-key-type).
