docs/HowTo/Monitor/Metrics.md, before:

---
description: Monitoring and metrics
---

# Use metrics to monitor performance

Enable the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) monitoring and alerting service for
Teku metrics using the [`--metrics-enabled`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-enabled)
option.

## Install Prometheus

To use Prometheus with Teku, install the
[Prometheus main component](https://prometheus.io/download/). On MacOS, install with
[Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/prometheus):

 ```bash
 brew install prometheus
```

## Setting up and running Prometheus with Teku

To configure Prometheus and run with Teku:

1. Configure Prometheus to poll Teku. For example, add the following YAML fragment to the
   `scrape_configs` block of the `prometheus.yml` file:

    !!! example "Example configuration"

        ```yml
        global:
          scrape_interval: 15s
        scrape_configs:
          - job_name: "prometheus"
            static_configs:
            - targets: ["localhost:9090"]
          - job_name: "teku-dev"
            scrape_timeout: 10s
            metrics_path: /metrics
            scheme: http
            static_configs:
            - targets: ["localhost:8008"]
        ```

1. Start Teku with the
   [`--metrics-enabled`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-enabled) option. To start a
   node for testing with metrics enabled:

     ```bash
     teku --eth1-deposit-contract-address=dddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd \
     --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 --validators-key-file=validator_keys \
     --p2p-port=9000 --rest-api-enabled=true --rest-api-docs-enabled=true \
     --metrics-enabled=true --metrics-categories=BEACON,PROCESS,LIBP2P,JVM,NETWORK,PROCESS
     ```

     To specify the host and port on which Prometheus accesses Teku, use the
     [`--metrics-interface`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-interface) and
     [`--metrics-port`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-port) options. The default host
     and port are 127.0.0.1 and 8008.

1. In another terminal, run Prometheus specifying the `prometheus.yml` file:

    ```bash
    prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml
    ```

1. View the [Prometheus graphical interface](#view-prometheus-graphical-interface).

!!! tip
    Use a log ingestion tool, such as Logstash, to parse the logs and alert you to configured
    anomalies.

## View Prometheus graphical interface

1. Open a web browser to `http://localhost:9090` to view the Prometheus graphical interface.

1. Choose **Graph** from the menu bar and click the **Console** tab below.

1. From the **Insert metric at cursor** drop-down, select a metric such as
   `libp2p_peers` or `beacon_finalized_epoch` and click **Execute**. The
   values display.

    !!! note
        The available metrics are prefixed with the category type specified using
        [`--metrics-categories`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-categories).

        The [Ethereum 2.0 specification] lists the minimum set of metrics implemented by
        beacon chain clients.

Click the **Graph** tab to view the data as a time-based graph. The query string displays below
the graph.

## Visualize collected data

Use
[Grafana] to visualize the collected data. See the sample
[Teku Grafana dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13457).

<!-- Links -->
[Ethereum 2.0 specification]: https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-metrics/blob/master/metrics.md
[Grafana]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/guides/getting_started/

Commit message:

Add info about running Prometheus on a separate host. (#291)
* Add  CLI option to disable built-in slashing protection for external signers.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add instructions to connect to mainnet.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* updating submodule to latest

* Add instructions to connect to mainnet.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Fix markdown issue.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add info about running Prometheus on a separate host.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Address reviewer feedback.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

docs/HowTo/Monitor/Metrics.md, after:

---
description: Monitoring and metrics
---

# Use metrics to monitor performance

Enable the [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) monitoring and alerting service for
Teku metrics using the [`--metrics-enabled`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-enabled)
option.

## Install Prometheus

To use Prometheus with Teku, install the
[Prometheus main component](https://prometheus.io/download/). On MacOS, install with
[Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/prometheus):

 ```bash
 brew install prometheus
```

## Setting up and running Prometheus with Teku

To configure Prometheus and run with Teku:

1. Configure Prometheus to poll Teku. For example, add the following YAML fragment to the
   `scrape_configs` block of the `prometheus.yml` file:

    !!! example "Example configuration"

        ```yml
        global:
          scrape_interval: 15s
        scrape_configs:
          - job_name: "prometheus"
            static_configs:
            - targets: ["localhost:9090"]
          - job_name: "teku-dev"
            scrape_timeout: 10s
            metrics_path: /metrics
            scheme: http
            static_configs:
            - targets: ["localhost:8008"]
        ```

1. Start Teku with the
   [`--metrics-enabled`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-enabled) option. To start a
   node for testing with metrics enabled:

     ```bash
     teku --eth1-deposit-contract-address=dddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd \
     --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 --validators-key-file=validator_keys \
     --p2p-port=9000 --rest-api-enabled=true --rest-api-docs-enabled=true \
     --metrics-enabled=true --metrics-categories=BEACON,PROCESS,LIBP2P,JVM,NETWORK,PROCESS
     ```

    !!! important

        To avoid DNS rebinding attacks, if running Prometheus on a different host to your Teku node
        (any host other than `localhost`), ensure you add the hostname that Prometheus uses to
        connect to Teku to [`--metrics-host-allowlist`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-host-allowlist).

        For example, if Prometheus is configured to get metrics from `http://teku.local:8008/metrics`
        then `teku.local` has to be in `--metrics-host-allowlist`.

     To specify the host and port on which Prometheus accesses Teku, use the
     [`--metrics-interface`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-interface) and
     [`--metrics-port`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-port) options. The default host
     and port are 127.0.0.1 and 8008.

1. In another terminal, run Prometheus specifying the `prometheus.yml` file:

    ```bash
    prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml
    ```

1. View the [Prometheus graphical interface](#view-prometheus-graphical-interface).

!!! tip
    Use a log ingestion tool, such as Logstash, to parse the logs and alert you to configured
    anomalies.

## View Prometheus graphical interface

1. Open a web browser to `http://localhost:9090` to view the Prometheus graphical interface.

1. Choose **Graph** from the menu bar and click the **Console** tab below.

1. From the **Insert metric at cursor** drop-down, select a metric such as
   `libp2p_peers` or `beacon_finalized_epoch` and click **Execute**. The
   values display.

    !!! note
        The available metrics are prefixed with the category type specified using
        [`--metrics-categories`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#metrics-categories).

        The [Ethereum 2.0 specification] lists the minimum set of metrics implemented by
        beacon chain clients.

Click the **Graph** tab to view the data as a time-based graph. The query string displays below
the graph.

## Visualize collected data

Use
[Grafana] to visualize the collected data. See the sample
[Teku Grafana dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/13457).

<!-- Links -->
[Ethereum 2.0 specification]: https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-metrics/blob/master/metrics.md
[Grafana]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/guides/getting_started/
