docs/tutorials/configure-external-signer-tls.md, before:

---
title: Configure TLS communication with an external signer
description: Configure TLS communication between Teku and Web3Signer.
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Configure TLS communication

Configure TLS communication with an external signer such as [Web3Signer] which accepts connections from clients that use trusted CA certificates or self-signed certificates.

This tutorial configures TLS between Teku and Web3Signer, and use the [`keytool`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/12/tools/keytool.html) utility to generate keystores and the truststore that contain self-signed certificates.

:::info

`keytool` is available with the JDK or JRE installation, you can also use OpenSSL.

:::

**Prerequisites**:

- [Web3Signer installed](https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/HowTo/Get-Started/Install-Binaries/).
- [Web3Signer signing key files](https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/HowTo/Use-Signing-Keys/) for validators on the testnet.
- [Teku Installed](../get-started/install/install-binaries.md).
- [Java `keytool`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/12/tools/keytool.html).
- A running execution client such as [Hyperledger Besu], or cloud-based service such as [Infura] synced to the Goerli testnet.

This tutorial connects to an ETH2 testnet, and uses [Infura] to access the Goerli ETH1 testnet. You can sign up for a free [Infura] account, or you can start your own [ETH1 Goerli node].

## 1. Create keystores

A keystore contains the certificate and private key used to authenticate yourself during TLS mutual authentication.

Teku can use either the PKCS12 or JKS keystore type, whereas Web3Signer only uses a PKCS12 keystore.

For each keystore you must create a plain text file containing the password to decrypt the keystore.

### Web3Signer keystore and password file

1.  Generate the Web3Signer keystore.

    ```bash
    keytool -genkeypair -keystore web3signer_keystore.p12 -storetype PKCS12 -storepass changeit -alias web3signer -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 109500 -dname "CN=localhost, OU=PegaSys, O=ConsenSys, L=Brisbane, ST=QLD, C=AU" -ext san=dns:localhost,ip:127.0.0.1
    ```

    :::info

    Common name (`CN`) is generally the fully qualified name of Web3Server, you can use `-ext san` to add additional hostnames or IP addresses. This allows the same certificate to be used for more than one hostname or IP address if Web3Signer is running on a different machine to Teku with multiple hostnames.

    :::

2.  Create a plain text file (for example `web3signer_keystore_password.txt`) that stores the password used to create the keystore.

    ```bash title="web3signer_keystore_password.txt"
    changeit
    ```

You now have the `web3signer_keystore.p12` and `web3signer_keystore_password.txt` files that must be supplied when [starting Web3Signer](#4-start-web3signer).

### Teku keystore and password file

Teku presents the keystore to Web3Signer for TLS mutual authentication. We recommend using PKCS12.

1.  Generate the Teku keystore.

    ```bash
    keytool -genkeypair -keystore teku_client_keystore.p12 -storetype PKCS12 -storepass changeit -alias teku_client -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 109500 -dname "CN=teku, OU=PegaSys, O=ConsenSys, L=Brisbane, ST=QLD, C=AU"
    ```

    :::info

    For Teku as a client, `CN` doesn't need to have a hostname, however it must be a lowercase value, such as `CN=teku`.

    :::

2.  Create a plain text file (for example `teku_keystore_password.txt`) that stores the password used to create the keystore.

    ```bash title="teku_keystore_password.txt"
    changeit
    ```

You now have the `teku_client_keystore.p12` and `teku_keystore_password.txt` files that must be supplied when [starting Teku](#5-start-teku).

## 2. Create the truststore and password file

The truststore contains certificates that you are willing to trust. Create the truststore to trust the Web3Signer certificate during TLS mutual authentication.

To create the truststore:

1.  Export the Web3Signer public certificate from the Web3Signer keystore to `PEM` format.

    ```bash
    keytool -exportcert -keystore ./web3signer_keystore.p12 -alias web3signer -rfc -file web3signer.pem
    ```

2.  Import the public certificate into a truststore to be used by Teku, and type `yes` if asked to trust the certificate.

    ```bash
    keytool -importcert -storetype PKCS12 -keystore web3signer_truststore.p12 -alias web3signer -trustcacerts -storepass changeit -file ./web3signer.pem
    ```

3.  Create a plain text file (for example `truststore_pass.txt`) that stores the password used to create the keystore.

    ```bash title="truststore_pass.txt"
    changeit
    ```

You now have the `web3signer_truststore.p12` and `truststore_pass.txt` files that must be supplied when [starting Teku](#5-start-teku).

## 3. Create the known clients file

Web3Signer uses a known clients file to trust client certificates.

1. Retrieve the `CN` and `SHA256` details from the Teku keystore.

   ```bash
   keytool -list -v -keystore teku_client_keystore.p12
   ```

2. Create a plain text file (in this case `knownClients.txt`) and add the `CN` and `SHA256` details in one line (separated by a single space).

   ```bash
   teku 67:89:C8:95:70:E0:38:10:2F:AB:7E:A3:75:4A:8C:29:C1:64:52:37:E5:E9:CD:EF:CD:27:C2:88:BF:84:3A:A1
   ```

:::info

You can add multiple known clients to the file by adding the `CN` and `SHA256` details on a new line.

:::

You now have the `knownClients.txt` file that must be supplied when [starting Web3Signer](#4-start-web3signer).

## 4. Start Web3Signer

:::warning

This example disables [Web3Signer slashing protection], this is not recommended on Mainnet.

:::

Start Web3Signer using the [keystore and password](#web3signer-keystore-and-password-file), and [known clients file](#3-create-the-known-clients-file) created earlier.

```bash
web3signer --key-store-path=/Users/me/keyFiles/ \
--tls-keystore-file=/Users/me/certs/web3signer_keystore.p12 \
--tls-keystore-password-file=/Users/me/certs/web3signer_keystore_password.txt \
--tls-known-clients-file=/Users/me/certs/knownClients.txt \
eth2 --slashing-protection-enabled=false
```

## 5. Start Teku

Start Teku and specify the [keystore](#teku-keystore-and-password-file) and [truststore](#2-create-the-truststore-and-password-file) created earlier, with the accompanying password files.

:::caution

This example connects to an [Infura] ETH1 endpoint, if running your own client, like [Hyperledger Besu], then add the JSON-RPC URL of the ETH1 node to the [`--eth1-endpoint`](../reference/cli/index.md#eth1-endpoint-eth1-endpoints) command line option.

:::

```bash
teku --network=goerli \
--eth1-endpoint=https://goerli.infura.iov3/d0f36ceb0c324eef9984422efbc51f21 \
--validators-external-signer-public-keys=0xa99a...e44c,0xb89b...4a0b \
--validators-external-signer-url=https://localhost:9000 \
--validators-external-signer-truststore=/Users/me/certs/web3signer_truststore.p12 \
--validators-external-signer-truststore-password-file=/Users/me/certs/truststore_pass.txt \
--validators-external-signer-keystore=/Users/me/certs/teku_client_keystore.p12 \
--validators-external-signer-keystore-password-file=/Users/me/certs/teku_keystore_password.txt
```

<!-- links -->

[Web3Signer]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/
[Hyperledger Besu]: https://besu.hyperledger.org/development/public-networks/get-started/install
[Infura]: https://infura.io/
[ETH1 Goerli node]: https://besu.hyperledger.org/development/public-networks/get-started/start-node#run-a-node-on-goerli-testnet
[Web3Signer slashing protection]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/concepts/slashing-protection/

Commit message:

Update docs to remove ETH1 and ETH2 (#544)
* Update docs to remove ETH1 and ETH2

* update to remove infra

* replace goerli testate

* Update language

* remove outdated content

* Update language

* fix for linter

* update

* apply suggestions

* Update docs/tutorials/configure-external-signer-tls.md

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/tutorials/configure-external-signer-tls.md

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

* add back eth2 line

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Byron Gravenorst <50852695+bgravenorst@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/tutorials/configure-external-signer-tls.md, after:

---
title: Configure TLS communication with an external signer
description: Configure TLS communication between Teku and Web3Signer.
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Configure TLS communication

Configure TLS communication with an external signer such as [Web3Signer] which accepts connections from clients that use trusted CA certificates or self-signed certificates.

This tutorial configures TLS between Teku and Web3Signer, and uses the [`keytool`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/12/tools/keytool.html) utility to generate keystores and a truststore that contain self-signed certificates.

:::info

`keytool` is available with the JDK or JRE installation, you can also use OpenSSL.

:::

**Prerequisites**:

- [Web3Signer installed](https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/HowTo/Get-Started/Install-Binaries/).
- [Web3Signer signing key files](https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/HowTo/Use-Signing-Keys/) for validators on the testnet.
- [Teku Installed](../get-started/install/install-binaries.md).
- [Java `keytool`](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/12/tools/keytool.html).
- A running execution client such as [Hyperledger Besu].
 
 This tutorial connects to the Holesky testnet.
 You can [run a Besu node on Holesky](https://besu.hyperledger.org/development/public-networks/get-started/start-node#run-a-node-on-holesky-testnet).

## 1. Create keystores

A keystore contains the certificate and private key used to authenticate yourself during TLS mutual authentication.

Teku can use either the PKCS12 or JKS keystore type, whereas Web3Signer only uses a PKCS12 keystore.

For each keystore you must create a plain text file containing the password to decrypt the keystore.

### Web3Signer keystore and password file

1.  Generate the Web3Signer keystore.

    ```bash
    keytool -genkeypair -keystore web3signer_keystore.p12 -storetype PKCS12 -storepass changeit -alias web3signer -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 109500 -dname "CN=localhost, OU=PegaSys, O=ConsenSys, L=Brisbane, ST=QLD, C=AU" -ext san=dns:localhost,ip:127.0.0.1
    ```

    :::info

    Common name (`CN`) is generally the fully qualified name of Web3Server, you can use `-ext san` to add additional hostnames or IP addresses. This allows the same certificate to be used for more than one hostname or IP address if Web3Signer is running on a different machine to Teku with multiple hostnames.

    :::

2.  Create a plain text file (for example `web3signer_keystore_password.txt`) that stores the password used to create the keystore.

    ```bash title="web3signer_keystore_password.txt"
    changeit
    ```

You now have the `web3signer_keystore.p12` and `web3signer_keystore_password.txt` files that must be supplied when [starting Web3Signer](#4-start-web3signer).

### Teku keystore and password file

Teku presents the keystore to Web3Signer for TLS mutual authentication. We recommend using PKCS12.

1.  Generate the Teku keystore.

    ```bash
    keytool -genkeypair -keystore teku_client_keystore.p12 -storetype PKCS12 -storepass changeit -alias teku_client -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 109500 -dname "CN=teku, OU=PegaSys, O=ConsenSys, L=Brisbane, ST=QLD, C=AU"
    ```

    :::info

    For Teku as a client, `CN` doesn't need to have a hostname, however it must be a lowercase value, such as `CN=teku`.

    :::

2.  Create a plain text file (for example `teku_keystore_password.txt`) that stores the password used to create the keystore.

    ```bash title="teku_keystore_password.txt"
    changeit
    ```

You now have the `teku_client_keystore.p12` and `teku_keystore_password.txt` files that must be supplied when [starting Teku](#5-start-teku).

## 2. Create the truststore and password file

The truststore contains certificates that you are willing to trust. Create the truststore to trust the Web3Signer certificate during TLS mutual authentication.

To create the truststore:

1.  Export the Web3Signer public certificate from the Web3Signer keystore to `PEM` format.

    ```bash
    keytool -exportcert -keystore ./web3signer_keystore.p12 -alias web3signer -rfc -file web3signer.pem
    ```

2.  Import the public certificate into a truststore to be used by Teku, and type `yes` if asked to trust the certificate.

    ```bash
    keytool -importcert -storetype PKCS12 -keystore web3signer_truststore.p12 -alias web3signer -trustcacerts -storepass changeit -file ./web3signer.pem
    ```

3.  Create a plain text file (for example `truststore_pass.txt`) that stores the password used to create the keystore.

    ```bash title="truststore_pass.txt"
    changeit
    ```

You now have the `web3signer_truststore.p12` and `truststore_pass.txt` files that must be supplied when [starting Teku](#5-start-teku).

## 3. Create the known clients file

Web3Signer uses a known clients file to trust client certificates.

1. Retrieve the `CN` and `SHA256` details from the Teku keystore.

   ```bash
   keytool -list -v -keystore teku_client_keystore.p12
   ```

2. Create a plain text file (in this case `knownClients.txt`) and add the `CN` and `SHA256` details in one line (separated by a single space).

   ```bash
   teku 67:89:C8:95:70:E0:38:10:2F:AB:7E:A3:75:4A:8C:29:C1:64:52:37:E5:E9:CD:EF:CD:27:C2:88:BF:84:3A:A1
   ```

:::info

You can add multiple known clients to the file by adding the `CN` and `SHA256` details on a new line.

:::

You now have the `knownClients.txt` file that must be supplied when [starting Web3Signer](#4-start-web3signer).

## 4. Start Web3Signer

:::warning

This example disables [Web3Signer slashing protection], this is not recommended on Mainnet.

:::

Start Web3Signer using the [keystore and password](#web3signer-keystore-and-password-file), and [known clients file](#3-create-the-known-clients-file) created earlier.

```bash
web3signer --key-store-path=/Users/me/keyFiles/ \
--tls-keystore-file=/Users/me/certs/web3signer_keystore.p12 \
--tls-keystore-password-file=/Users/me/certs/web3signer_keystore_password.txt \
--tls-known-clients-file=/Users/me/certs/knownClients.txt \
eth2 --slashing-protection-enabled=false
```

## 5. Start Teku

Start Teku and specify the [keystore](#teku-keystore-and-password-file) and [truststore](#2-create-the-truststore-and-password-file) created earlier, with the accompanying password files.

:::note
This example connects to the Holesky testnet, and connects to the execution client's JSON-RPC URL at `http://127.0.0.1:8551`.
:::

```bash
teku --network=holesky \
--ee-endpoint=http://127.0.0.1:8551 \
--validators-external-signer-public-keys=0xa99a...e44c,0xb89b...4a0b \
--validators-external-signer-url=https://localhost:9000 \
--validators-external-signer-truststore=/Users/me/certs/web3signer_truststore.p12 \
--validators-external-signer-truststore-password-file=/Users/me/certs/truststore_pass.txt \
--validators-external-signer-keystore=/Users/me/certs/teku_client_keystore.p12 \
--validators-external-signer-keystore-password-file=/Users/me/certs/teku_keystore_password.txt
```

<!-- links -->

[Web3Signer]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/
[Hyperledger Besu]: https://besu.hyperledger.org/development/public-networks/get-started/install
[Web3Signer slashing protection]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/concepts/slashing-protection/
