docs/HowTo/Load-Validators-No-Restart.md, before:

---
description: How to load validators without restarting Teku
---

# Load validators without restarting Teku

You can load validators into a running Teku process, only if you started Teku by:

* Specifying a directory using [`--validator-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-keys), or
* Specifying a URL using [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys).

!!! important

    * If you started Teku by specifying individual validator key files or external signer public keys,
        then you must restart Teku.

    * You must restart Teku to remove validators.

**Prerequisites:**

* Add the new validators to the directory specified in [`--validator-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-keys),
    or ensure the URL supplied in [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys)
    contains the new public keys.

To load the validators in a running Teku instance, send a `SIGHUP` signal to the Teku process.

```bash
kill -HUP <PID>
```

Where `<PID>` is the process ID of the running Teku instance.

Commit message:

Docusaurus (#429)
* refactor: docusaurus init

* feat: admonition 1

* fix: css banner text

* fix: favicon and logo

* feat: add some teku color in banner

* fix: admonition conversion

* feat: banner font clamp and gradient

* fix: light dark banner text

* fix: update gradient

* fix: tagline edit

* fix: linear gradient title

* fix: undo gradient title

* fix: better banner

* fix: subtitle pop in

* fix: no override

* fix: adjust wide clamp

* feat: add gtag and gtm

* fix: button text get started

* fix: bring in line to merge

* ci: skip case test

* fix: logo light dark

* fix: pr template

docs/HowTo/Load-Validators-No-Restart.md, after:

---
title: Load validators without restarting
description: How to load validators without restarting Teku
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Load validators without restarting Teku

You can load validators into a running Teku process, only if you started Teku by:

- Specifying a directory using [`--validator-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-keys), or
- Specifying a URL using [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys).

:::caution

- If you started Teku by specifying individual validator key files or external signer public keys, then you must restart Teku.
- You must restart Teku to remove validators.

:::

**Prerequisites:**

- Add the new validators to the directory specified in [`--validator-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-keys), or ensure the URL supplied in [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys) contains the new public keys.

To load the validators in a running Teku instance, send a `SIGHUP` signal to the Teku process.

```bash
kill -HUP <PID>
```

Where `<PID>` is the process ID of the running Teku instance.
