docs/HowTo/Sentry-Nodes.md, before:

---
description: How to use sentry beacon nodes
---

# Sentry beacon nodes

You can calculate future block proposers ahead of time, which opens up an attack vector for attackers.
A DoS attack on a validator's beacon node can cause the validator to miss its block proposal, thereby loosing
the block proposal reward. You can mitigate this issue by using sentry nodes.

!!! important

    Only [validators executed separately](Get-Started/Run-Teku.md#run-the-clients-separately) from
    beacon nodes (remote validators) can use sentry nodes 

When you configure your remote validator to use sentry beacon nodes, each beacon node (or cluster of
beacon nodes) can be assigned a role. Each role determines which beacon node the remote validator
sends request to when performing a task.

Sentry nodes support three roles:

- `duties_provider` - Beacon node used for requesting attestations and block duties.
- `block_handler` - Beacon node used for block creation and publishing.
- `attestation_publisher` - Beacon node used for publishing attestations.

Only the `duties_provider` role is mandatory. You can assign multiple beacon node endpoints for each
role.

## Configure sentry nodes

!!! important

    The CLI option `--sentry-config-file=<file_path>` cannot be used with
    [`--beacon-node-api-endpoint`](../Reference/CLI/Subcommands/Validator-Client.md#beacon-node-api-endpoint).

Configure your sentry nodes in a JSON configuration file. To configure your remote validator to use the
sentry node configuration, use the `--sentry-config-file=<file_path>` CLI option.

The configuration file (in this example, `/etc/sentry-node-config.json`) uses the following format:

```json
{
  "beacon_nodes": {
    "duties_provider": {
      "endpoints": [
        "http://duties:9051"
      ]
    },
    "block_handler": {
      "endpoints": [
        "http://block:9051"
      ]
    },
    "attestation_publisher": {
      "endpoints": [
        "http://attestation:9051"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Start your remote validator with the `--sentry-config-file` option, for example:

```bash
teku validator --sentry-config-file=/etc/sentry-node-config.json
```

During startup the logs display output similar to:

```bash
...
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.260 INFO  - Loading sentry nodes configuration from /etc/sentry-node-config.json
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.277 INFO  - Duty provider beacon nodes: http://duties:9051
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.277 INFO  - Block handler beacon nodes: http://block:9051
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.278 INFO  - Attestation publisher beacon nodes: http://attestation:9051
...
```

At this point, the remote validator knows what beacon nodes should be used for its tasks and
no further configuration is required.

Commit message:

Docusaurus (#429)
* refactor: docusaurus init

* feat: admonition 1

* fix: css banner text

* fix: favicon and logo

* feat: add some teku color in banner

* fix: admonition conversion

* feat: banner font clamp and gradient

* fix: light dark banner text

* fix: update gradient

* fix: tagline edit

* fix: linear gradient title

* fix: undo gradient title

* fix: better banner

* fix: subtitle pop in

* fix: no override

* fix: adjust wide clamp

* feat: add gtag and gtm

* fix: button text get started

* fix: bring in line to merge

* ci: skip case test

* fix: logo light dark

* fix: pr template

docs/HowTo/Sentry-Nodes.md, after:

---
title: Use sentry beacon nodes
description: How to use sentry beacon nodes
sidebar_position: 13
---

# Sentry beacon nodes

You can calculate future block proposers ahead of time, which opens up an attack vector for attackers. A DoS attack on a validator's beacon node can cause the validator to miss its block proposal, thereby loosing the block proposal reward. You can mitigate this issue by using sentry nodes.

:::info

Only [validators executed separately](Get-Started/Run-Teku.md#run-the-clients-separately) from beacon nodes (remote validators) can use sentry nodes

:::

When you configure your remote validator to use sentry beacon nodes, each beacon node (or cluster of beacon nodes) can be assigned a role. Each role determines which beacon node the remote validator sends request to when performing a task.

Sentry nodes support three roles:

- `duties_provider` - Beacon node used for requesting attestations and block duties.
- `block_handler` - Beacon node used for block creation and publishing.
- `attestation_publisher` - Beacon node used for publishing attestations.

Only the `duties_provider` role is mandatory. You can assign multiple beacon node endpoints for each role.

## Configure sentry nodes

:::info

The CLI option `--sentry-config-file=<file_path>` cannot be used with [`--beacon-node-api-endpoint`](../Reference/CLI/Subcommands/Validator-Client.md#beacon-node-api-endpoint).

:::

Configure your sentry nodes in a JSON configuration file. To configure your remote validator to use the sentry node configuration, use the `--sentry-config-file=<file_path>` CLI option.

The configuration file (in this example, `/etc/sentry-node-config.json`) uses the following format:

```json
{
  "beacon_nodes": {
    "duties_provider": {
      "endpoints": ["http://duties:9051"]
    },
    "block_handler": {
      "endpoints": ["http://block:9051"]
    },
    "attestation_publisher": {
      "endpoints": ["http://attestation:9051"]
    }
  }
}
```

Start your remote validator with the `--sentry-config-file` option, for example:

```bash
teku validator --sentry-config-file=/etc/sentry-node-config.json
```

During startup the logs display output similar to:

```bash
...
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.260 INFO  - Loading sentry nodes configuration from /etc/sentry-node-config.json
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.277 INFO  - Duty provider beacon nodes: http://duties:9051
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.277 INFO  - Block handler beacon nodes: http://block:9051
DEBUG | SentryNodesConfigLoader | 2022-10-03 01:31:48.278 INFO  - Attestation publisher beacon nodes: http://attestation:9051
...
```

At this point, the remote validator knows what beacon nodes should be used for its tasks and no further configuration is required.
