docs/Reference/Rest_API/Rest.md, before:

---
description: Teku RESTful API
---

# REST API

## View the REST API documentation

View the [REST API documentation] for more information about the available APIs.

## Enable the REST API service

[Enable the REST API service](#enable-the-rest-api-service) from the command line by setting the
[`--rest-api-enabled`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-enabled) command line option to `true`.

You can also interact with APIs using Swagger UI by enabling the API documentation endpoint.

!!! warning

    Only trusted parties should access the REST API. Do not directly expose these APIs publicly on
    production nodes.

Interact with Teku APIs using the web browser by setting the
[`--rest-api-docs-enabled`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-docs-enabled) command line option to `true`.

Access the APIs at `http:<interface>:<port>/swagger-ui` where:

* `interface` is specified using [`--rest-api-interface`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-interface)
* `port` is specified using [`--rest-api-port`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-port)

The default location is `http://localhost:5051/swagger-ui`.

You can also use tools such as [Postman] or [cURL] to interact with Teku APIs.

!!! example

    === "cURL request"

        ```bash
        curl -X GET "http://localhost:5051/eth/v1/node/identity"
        ```

    === "JSON Result"

        ```json
        {
           "data":{
              "peer_id":"16Uiu2HAkuWPWqF4W3aw9oo5Yw79v5muzBaaGTGKumuXR8qkSVq6y",
              "enr":"enr:-KG4QJ3PlL-XIRZCBq3L-uZ4wovEVEvxUMmvv75YDk9imb21clm0x3V2J5Vf9Zz3tLDpTplhG68_kzZPOxcU0ttwNDAEhGV0aDKQtTA_KgAAAAD__________4JpZIJ2NIJpcIS5a1YhiXNlY3AyNTZrMaECATVJhRqBrqyo8l6JKz6HidWL82kQcDmtKWuQZLDmZmqDdGNwgiMog3VkcILZIg",
              "p2p_addresses":[
                 "/ip4/10.0.0.42/tcp/9000/p2p/16Uiu2HAkuWPWqF4W3aw9oo5Yw79v5muzBaaGTGKumuXR8qkSVq6y"
              ],
              "discovery_addresses":[
                 "/ip4/10.0.0.42/udp/55586/p2p/16Uiu2HAkuWPWqF4W3aw9oo5Yw79v5muzBaaGTGKumuXR8qkSVq6y"
              ],
              "metadata":{
                 "seq_number":"0",
                 "attnets":"0x0000000000000000"
              }
           }
        }
        ```

<!-- Links -->
[REST API documentation]:https://consensys.github.io/teku/#stable
[Postman]: https://www.postman.com/
[cURL]: https://curl.haxx.se/

Commit message:

Document Validator API CLI options

docs/Reference/Rest_API/Rest.md, after:

---
description: Teku RESTful API
---

# REST API

## View the REST API documentation

View the [REST API documentation] for more information about the available APIs.

## Enable the REST API service

Enable the REST API service from the command line by setting the
[`--rest-api-enabled`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-enabled) command line option to `true`.

You can also interact with APIs using Swagger UI by enabling the API documentation endpoint.

!!! warning

    Only trusted parties should access the REST API. Do not directly expose these APIs publicly on
    production nodes.

Interact with Teku APIs using the web browser by setting the
[`--rest-api-docs-enabled`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-docs-enabled) command line option to `true`.

Access the APIs at `http:<interface>:<port>/swagger-ui` where:

* `interface` is specified using [`--rest-api-interface`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-interface)
* `port` is specified using [`--rest-api-port`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#rest-api-port)

The default location is `http://localhost:5051/swagger-ui`.

You can also use tools such as [Postman] or [cURL] to interact with Teku APIs.

!!! example

    === "cURL request"

        ```bash
        curl -X GET "http://localhost:5051/eth/v1/node/identity"
        ```

    === "JSON Result"

        ```json
        {
           "data":{
              "peer_id":"16Uiu2HAkuWPWqF4W3aw9oo5Yw79v5muzBaaGTGKumuXR8qkSVq6y",
              "enr":"enr:-KG4QJ3PlL-XIRZCBq3L-uZ4wovEVEvxUMmvv75YDk9imb21clm0x3V2J5Vf9Zz3tLDpTplhG68_kzZPOxcU0ttwNDAEhGV0aDKQtTA_KgAAAAD__________4JpZIJ2NIJpcIS5a1YhiXNlY3AyNTZrMaECATVJhRqBrqyo8l6JKz6HidWL82kQcDmtKWuQZLDmZmqDdGNwgiMog3VkcILZIg",
              "p2p_addresses":[
                 "/ip4/10.0.0.42/tcp/9000/p2p/16Uiu2HAkuWPWqF4W3aw9oo5Yw79v5muzBaaGTGKumuXR8qkSVq6y"
              ],
              "discovery_addresses":[
                 "/ip4/10.0.0.42/udp/55586/p2p/16Uiu2HAkuWPWqF4W3aw9oo5Yw79v5muzBaaGTGKumuXR8qkSVq6y"
              ],
              "metadata":{
                 "seq_number":"0",
                 "attnets":"0x0000000000000000"
              }
           }
        }
        ```

### Enable the validator REST API

The [validator REST API](https://consensys.github.io/teku/#tag/Validator-Required-Api) is a subset of API methods that are enabled separately from the other REST APIs.

Enable the validator REST API from the command line by setting the
[`--validator-api-enabled`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-api-enabled) command line option to `true`.

You can also interact with APIs using Swagger UI by enabling the API documentation endpoint by setting the
[`--validator-api-docs-enabled`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-api-docs-enabled) option to `true`.

Access the APIs at `http:<interface>:<port>/swagger-ui` where:

* `interface` is specified using [`--validator-api-interface`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-api-interface)
* `port` is specified using [`--validator-api-port`](../CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validator-api-port)

The default location is `http://localhost:5052/swagger-ui`.

<!-- Links -->
[REST API documentation]:https://consensys.github.io/teku/#stable
[Postman]: https://www.postman.com/
[cURL]: https://curl.haxx.se/
