docs/Reference/CLI/Subcommands/Migrate-Database.md, before:

---
title: Database migration subcommand options
---

# `migrate-database`

[Migrate the database to a LevelDB2 database](../../../HowTo/Migrate-Database.md).

!!! note

    As of v21.5.0, new Teku installations use a LevelDB2 database. Previous Teku versions use
    RocksDB which continue to be supported.

## `config-file`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --config-file=<FILE>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --config-file=/home/me/me_node/config.yaml
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_CONFIG_FILE=/home/me/me_node/config.yaml
    ```

Path to the [YAML configuration file](../../../HowTo/Configure/Use-Configuration-File.md).
The default is `none`.

## `data-base-path`, `data-path`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-base-path=<PATH>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-base-path=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_DATA_BASE_PATH=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Configuration file"

    ```bash
    data-base-path: "/home/me/me_node"
    ```

Path to the Teku data directory. The default directory is OS-dependent:

* macOS: `~/Library/teku`
* Unix/Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/teku` if `$XDG_DATA_HOME` is set; otherwise `~/.local/share/teku`
* Windows: `%localappdata%\teku`

The default Docker image location is `/root/.local/share/teku`.

## `data-beacon-path`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-beacon-path=<PATH>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-beacon-path=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_DATA_BEACON_PATH=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Configuration file"

    ```bash
    data-beacon-path: "/home/me/me_node"
    ```

Path to the beacon node data. The default is `<data-base-path>/beacon` where `<data-base-path>`
is specified using [`--data-base-path`](#data-base-path-data-path).

## `network`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --network=<NETWORK>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --network=mainnet
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_NETWORK=mainnet
    ```

=== "Configuration file"

    ```bash
    network: "mainnet"
    ```

Predefined network configuration.
Accepts a predefined network name, or file path or URL to a YAML configuration file. See the
[consensus specification](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/master/configs) for examples.

The default is `mainnet`.

Possible values are:

| Network   | Chain           | Type       | Description                                      |
|:----------|:----------------|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------------|
| `mainnet` | Consensus layer | Production | Main network                                     |
| `minimal` | Consensus layer | Test       | Used for local testing and development networks  |
| `prater`  | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `kiln`    | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `ropsten` | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `gnosis`  | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `sepolia` | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |

Commit message:

Update gnosis network description (#376)
* Update gnosis network description

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Reference/CLI/Subcommands/Migrate-Database.md, after:

---
title: Database migration subcommand options
---

# `migrate-database`

[Migrate the database to a LevelDB2 database](../../../HowTo/Migrate-Database.md).

!!! note

    As of v21.5.0, new Teku installations use a LevelDB2 database. Previous Teku versions use
    RocksDB which continue to be supported.

## `config-file`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --config-file=<FILE>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --config-file=/home/me/me_node/config.yaml
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_CONFIG_FILE=/home/me/me_node/config.yaml
    ```

Path to the [YAML configuration file](../../../HowTo/Configure/Use-Configuration-File.md).
The default is `none`.

## `data-base-path`, `data-path`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-base-path=<PATH>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-base-path=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_DATA_BASE_PATH=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Configuration file"

    ```bash
    data-base-path: "/home/me/me_node"
    ```

Path to the Teku data directory. The default directory is OS-dependent:

* macOS: `~/Library/teku`
* Unix/Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/teku` if `$XDG_DATA_HOME` is set; otherwise `~/.local/share/teku`
* Windows: `%localappdata%\teku`

The default Docker image location is `/root/.local/share/teku`.

## `data-beacon-path`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-beacon-path=<PATH>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --data-beacon-path=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_DATA_BEACON_PATH=/home/me/me_node
    ```

=== "Configuration file"

    ```bash
    data-beacon-path: "/home/me/me_node"
    ```

Path to the beacon node data. The default is `<data-base-path>/beacon` where `<data-base-path>`
is specified using [`--data-base-path`](#data-base-path-data-path).

## `network`

=== "Syntax"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --network=<NETWORK>
    ```

=== "Example"

    ```bash
    teku migrate-database --network=mainnet
    ```

=== "Environment variable"

    ```bash
    TEKU_NETWORK=mainnet
    ```

=== "Configuration file"

    ```bash
    network: "mainnet"
    ```

Predefined network configuration.
Accepts a predefined network name, or file path or URL to a YAML configuration file. See the
[consensus specification](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/master/configs) for examples.

The default is `mainnet`.

Possible values are:

| Network   | Chain           | Type       | Description                                      |
|:----------|:----------------|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------------|
| `mainnet` | Consensus layer | Production | Main network                                     |
| `minimal` | Consensus layer | Test       | Used for local testing and development networks  |
| `prater`  | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `kiln`    | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `ropsten` | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
| `gnosis`  | Consensus layer | Production | Network for the [Gnosis chain](https://docs.gnosischain.com/) |
| `sepolia` | Consensus layer | Test       | Multi-client testnet                             |
