docs/HowTo/External-Signer/Use-External-Signer.md, before:

---
description: Use Web3Signer for signing
---

# Use an external signer

Teku supports the [Web3Signer] external signing client.

**Prerequisites**:

* Web3Signer installed and running.
* [Signing key configuration files].

## Start Teku

Start Teku and specify the external signer options.

```bash
teku --network=goerli \
--eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validators-external-signer-public-keys=0xa99a...e44c,0xb89b...4a0b \
--validators-external-signer-url=http://localhost:9000
```

The command line:

* Specifies the validator public keys for which Web3Signer signs attestations and blocks using
    [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys).
* Specifies the URL of the Web3Signer client using
    [`--validators-external-signer-url`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-url).

!!! note
    You need a [signing key configuration file] for each public key specified using
    [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys).

<!--links-->
[Web3Signer]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/
[Signing key configuration files]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/HowTo/Use-Signing-Keys/
[signing key configuration file]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/HowTo/Use-Signing-Keys/

Commit message:

Docusaurus (#429)
* refactor: docusaurus init

* feat: admonition 1

* fix: css banner text

* fix: favicon and logo

* feat: add some teku color in banner

* fix: admonition conversion

* feat: banner font clamp and gradient

* fix: light dark banner text

* fix: update gradient

* fix: tagline edit

* fix: linear gradient title

* fix: undo gradient title

* fix: better banner

* fix: subtitle pop in

* fix: no override

* fix: adjust wide clamp

* feat: add gtag and gtm

* fix: button text get started

* fix: bring in line to merge

* ci: skip case test

* fix: logo light dark

* fix: pr template

docs/HowTo/External-Signer/Use-External-Signer.md, after:

---
title: Use an external signer
description: Use Web3Signer for signing
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Use an external signer

Teku supports the [Web3Signer] external signing client.

**Prerequisites**:

- Web3Signer installed and running.
- [Signing key configuration files].

## Start Teku

Start Teku and specify the external signer options.

```bash
teku --network=goerli \
--eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545 \
--validators-external-signer-public-keys=0xa99a...e44c,0xb89b...4a0b \
--validators-external-signer-url=http://localhost:9000
```

The command line:

- Specifies the validator public keys for which Web3Signer signs attestations and blocks using [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys).
- Specifies the URL of the Web3Signer client using [`--validators-external-signer-url`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-url).

:::note

You need a [signing key configuration file] for each public key specified using [`--validators-external-signer-public-keys`](../../Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax.md#validators-external-signer-public-keys).

:::

<!--links-->

[Web3Signer]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/
[Signing key configuration files]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/HowTo/Use-Signing-Keys/
[signing key configuration file]: https://docs.web3signer.consensys.net/en/latest/HowTo/Use-Signing-Keys/
