docs/Reference/CLI/CLI-Subcommands.md, before:

---
description: Teku command line interface subcommands
---

# Subcommands

## transition

Manually run state transitions for blocks or slots for debugging.

### blocks

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku transition blocks --config=<FILENAME> [--pre=<PRE>] [--post=<POST>] [blockFiles]
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku transition blocks --config=config.toml --pre=preState.bin --post=outputFile.bin blockFile1.bin blockFile2.bin
```

Process blocks on the pre-state to get a post-state where:

* `<PRE>` is the Pre(Input) path. If not specified, input is read from STDIN.
* `<POST>` is the Post(Output) path. If not specified, output is written to STDOUT.
* `[block...]` are the files from which to read blocks.

### slots

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku transition slots --config=<FILENAME> [--delta] [--pre=<PRE>] [--post=<POST>] <number>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku transition slots --config=config.toml --pre=preState.bin --post=outputFile.bin 50
```

Process empty slots on the pre-state to get a post-state where:

* `<PRE>` is the Pre(Input) path. If not specified, input is read from STDIN.
* `<POST>` is the Post(Output) path. If not specified, output is written to STDOUT.
* `--delta` specifies to interpret `<number>` as a delta from the pre-state.
* `<number>` is number of slots to process.

## peer

Commands for LibP2P PeerID.

### generate

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku peer generate [--outputFile=<FILENAME>] <number>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku peer generate --outputFile=./peerIDs 3
```

Generate a list of peer IDs including the private key, public key, and peer ID where:

* `--outputFile` is the path and filename of the file to which the keys are written.
  If not specified, the peer IDs are written to the `./config/peer-ids.dat` file.
* `<number` is the number of peer IDs to generate.

## validator

Register or generate validators, and send transactions to an Ethereum 1.0 node.

### generate

Register a validator by generating new keys and sending deposit transactions to an Ethereum 1.0
node.

#### deposit-amount-gwei

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --deposit-amount-gwei=<GWEI>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku validator generate --deposit-amount-gwei=32000000000
```

Amount to deposit in the Ethereum 1.0 deposit contract.

#### encrypted-keystore-enabled

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-enabled=<BOOLEAN>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-enabled=false
```

Specify whether to create encrypted BLS12-381 keystore validator and withdrawal keys.
Defaults to `true`.

Use [`--keys-output-path`](#keys-output-path) to specify the output location of
the encrypted or unencrypted keys.

!!! important
    Unencrypted keys are displayed on the console if the output location is not specified.

#### eth1-deposit-contract-address

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-deposit-contract-address=<ADDRESS>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-deposit-contract-address=0x77f7bED277449F51505a4C54550B074030d989bC
```

Ethereum 1.0 address of deposit contract.

#### eth1-endpoint

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-endpoint=<URL>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545
```

JSON-RPC URL of Ethereum 1.0 node.

#### eth1-keystore-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-file=/home/me/me_node/keystore
```

Path to the encrypted V3 keystore file containing the private key of the
Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-private-key`](#eth1-private-key)

#### eth1-keystore-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

Path to the file containing the password to decrypt the V3 keystore.

#### eth1-private-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-private-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-private-key=8f2a55949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692be63
```

Private key of the Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-keystore-file`](#eth1-keystore-file).

#### keys-output-path

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --keys-output-path=<FILE|DIR>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --keys-output-path=/home/me/me_node/keys
```

Specify the output location for validator and withdrawal keys. If not set, unencrypted
keys are written to standard out, and encrypted BLS12-381 keystores are created in current directory.

Use this option to specify:

* The path to the output file when using unencrypted keys. That is,
  [`--encrypted-keystore-enabled`](#encrypted-keystore-enabled) set to `false`.
* The path to the output directory for the generated keystore files. That is,
  [`encrypted-keystore-enabled`](#encrypted-keystore-enabled) set to `true`.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=<ENV>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=VALIDATOR_PASSWORD
```

The environment variable that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

The file that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-env

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-env=<ENV>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-env=WITHDRAWAL_PASSWORD
```

The environment variable that stores the password to decrypt the validator's withdrawal key.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

The file that stores the password to decrypt the validator's withdrawal key.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### number-of-validators

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --number-of-validators=<NUMBER>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --number-of-validators=64
```

Specify the number of validators to create keys for and register.

A minimum of 64 validators are required in a network.

### register

Register a validator using existing keys by sending a deposit transaction to an
Ethereum 1.0 node.

#### deposit-amount-gwei

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --deposit-amount-gwei=<GWEI>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku validator register --deposit-amount-gwei=32000000000
```

Amount to deposit in the Ethereum 1.0 deposit contract.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

Path to the BLS12-381 keystore file containing the validator's encrypted private key.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=<ENV>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=VALIDATOR_PASSWORD
```

The environment variable that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

The file that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

#### eth1-deposit-contract-address

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-deposit-contract-address=<ADDRESS>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-deposit-contract-address=0x77f7bED277449F51505a4C54550B074030d989bC
```

Ethereum 1.0 address of deposit contract.

#### eth1-endpoint

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-endpoint=<URL>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545
```

JSON-RPC URL of Ethereum 1.0 node.

#### eth1-keystore-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-file=/home/me/me_node/keystore
```

Path to the encrypted V3 keystore file containing the private key of the
Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-private-key`](#eth1-private-key_1)

#### eth1-keystore-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

Path to the file containing the password to decrypt the V3 keystore.

#### eth1-private-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-private-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-private-key=8f2a55949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692be63
```

Private key of the Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-keystore-file`](#eth1-keystore-file_1).

#### validator-private-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --validator-private-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --validator-private-key=2a4055949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692cb87
```

Validator's private signing key. Cannot be used with
[`--encrypted-keystore-validator-file`](#encrypted-keystore-validator-file)

#### withdrawal-public-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --withdrawal-public-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --withdrawal-public-key=b65c2a1dc6a8eaadae03d5849dd6ac614b32dc5f8af37e2eb4ced0c72fd69fabe90fc783b0435f5a36ff1338385ef837
```

Validators public withdrawal key.

Commit message:

Update connecting to testnet instructions. (#70)
* Update connecting to testnet instructions.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Use encrypted keys.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Use encrypted keys.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Fix whitespace issues.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add witti network.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Address review comments.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Address review comments.

Signed-off-by: Byron Gravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

docs/Reference/CLI/CLI-Subcommands.md, after:

---
description: Teku command line interface subcommands
---

# Subcommands

## transition

Manually run state transitions for blocks or slots for debugging.

### blocks

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku transition blocks --config=<FILENAME> [--pre=<PRE>] [--post=<POST>] [blockFiles]
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku transition blocks --config=config.toml --pre=preState.bin --post=outputFile.bin blockFile1.bin blockFile2.bin
```

Process blocks on the pre-state to get a post-state where:

* `<PRE>` is the Pre(Input) path. If not specified, input is read from STDIN.
* `<POST>` is the Post(Output) path. If not specified, output is written to STDOUT.
* `[block...]` are the files from which to read blocks.

### slots

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku transition slots --config=<FILENAME> [--delta] [--pre=<PRE>] [--post=<POST>] <number>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku transition slots --config=config.toml --pre=preState.bin --post=outputFile.bin 50
```

Process empty slots on the pre-state to get a post-state where:

* `<PRE>` is the Pre(Input) path. If not specified, input is read from STDIN.
* `<POST>` is the Post(Output) path. If not specified, output is written to STDOUT.
* `--delta` specifies to interpret `<number>` as a delta from the pre-state.
* `<number>` is number of slots to process.

## peer

Commands for LibP2P PeerID.

### generate

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku peer generate [--outputFile=<FILENAME>] <number>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku peer generate --outputFile=./peerIDs 3
```

Generate a list of peer IDs including the private key, public key, and peer ID where:

* `--outputFile` is the path and filename of the file to which the keys are written.
  If not specified, the peer IDs are written to the `./config/peer-ids.dat` file.
* `<number` is the number of peer IDs to generate.

## validator

Register or generate validators, and send transactions to an Ethereum 1.0 node.

### generate

Register a validator by generating new keys and sending deposit transactions to an Ethereum 1.0
node.

#### deposit-amount-gwei

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --deposit-amount-gwei=<GWEI>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku validator generate --deposit-amount-gwei=32000000000
```

Amount to deposit in the Ethereum 1.0 deposit contract. Defaults to the minimum ETH required to
activate a validator on the specified network.

#### encrypted-keystore-enabled

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-enabled=<BOOLEAN>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-enabled=false
```

Specify whether to create encrypted BLS12-381 keystore validator and withdrawal keys.
Defaults to `true`.

Use [`--keys-output-path`](#keys-output-path) to specify the output location of
the encrypted or unencrypted keys.

!!! important
    Unencrypted keys are displayed on the console if the output location is not specified.

#### eth1-deposit-contract-address

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-deposit-contract-address=<ADDRESS>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-deposit-contract-address=0x77f7bED277449F51505a4C54550B074030d989bC
```

Ethereum 1.0 address of deposit contract.

#### eth1-endpoint

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-endpoint=<URL>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545
```

JSON-RPC URL of Ethereum 1.0 node.

#### eth1-keystore-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-file=/home/me/me_node/keystore
```

Path to the encrypted V3 keystore file containing the private key of the
Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-private-key`](#eth1-private-key)

#### eth1-keystore-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-keystore-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

Path to the file containing the password to decrypt the V3 keystore.

#### eth1-private-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --eth1-private-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --eth1-private-key=8f2a55949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692be63
```

Private key of the Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-keystore-file`](#eth1-keystore-file).

#### keys-output-path

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --keys-output-path=<FILE|DIR>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --keys-output-path=/home/me/me_node/keys
```

Specify the output location for validator and withdrawal keys. If not set, unencrypted
keys are written to standard out, and encrypted BLS12-381 keystores are created in current directory.

Use this option to specify:

* The path to the output file when using unencrypted keys. That is,
  [`--encrypted-keystore-enabled`](#encrypted-keystore-enabled) set to `false`.
* The path to the output directory for the generated keystore files. That is,
  [`encrypted-keystore-enabled`](#encrypted-keystore-enabled) set to `true`.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=<ENV>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=VALIDATOR_PASSWORD
```

The environment variable that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

The file that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-env

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-env=<ENV>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-env=WITHDRAWAL_PASSWORD
```

The environment variable that stores the password to decrypt the validator's withdrawal key.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --encrypted-keystore-withdrawal-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

The file that stores the password to decrypt the validator's withdrawal key.

If you do not specify a password, then you need to manually enter a password at
the command line when prompted.

#### network

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --network=<NETWORK>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --network=mainnet
```

[Network to use](CLI-Syntax.md#network). This option must be supplied.

#### number-of-validators

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator generate --number-of-validators=<NUMBER>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator generate --number-of-validators=64
```

Specify the number of validators to create keys for and register.

A minimum of 64 validators are required in a network.

### register

Register a validator using existing keys by sending a deposit transaction to an
Ethereum 1.0 node.

#### deposit-amount-gwei

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --deposit-amount-gwei=<GWEI>
```

```bash tab="Example"
teku validator register --deposit-amount-gwei=32000000000
```

Amount to deposit in the Ethereum 1.0 deposit contract.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

Path to the BLS12-381 keystore file containing the validator's encrypted private key.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=<ENV>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-env=VALIDATOR_PASSWORD
```

The environment variable that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

#### encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --encrypted-keystore-validator-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

The file that stores the password to decrypt the validator's BLS12-381 keystore.

#### eth1-deposit-contract-address

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-deposit-contract-address=<ADDRESS>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-deposit-contract-address=0x77f7bED277449F51505a4C54550B074030d989bC
```

Ethereum 1.0 address of deposit contract.

#### eth1-endpoint

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-endpoint=<URL>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-endpoint=http://localhost:8545
```

JSON-RPC URL of Ethereum 1.0 node.

#### eth1-keystore-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-file=/home/me/me_node/keystore
```

Path to the encrypted V3 keystore file containing the private key of the
Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-private-key`](#eth1-private-key_1)

#### eth1-keystore-password-file

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-password-file=<FILE>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-keystore-password-file=/home/me/me_node/password
```

Path to the file containing the password to decrypt the V3 keystore.

#### eth1-private-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --eth1-private-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --eth1-private-key=8f2a55949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692be63
```

Private key of the Ethereum 1.0 account from which to send the deposit transaction. Ensure the
account has enough ether to cover the amount specified using
[`--deposit-amount-gwei`](#deposit-amount-gwei).

Cannot be used with [`--eth1-keystore-file`](#eth1-keystore-file_1).

#### network

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --network=<NETWORK>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --network=mainnet
```

[Network to use](CLI-Syntax.md#network). This option must be supplied.

#### validator-private-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --validator-private-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --validator-private-key=2a4055949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692cb87
```

Validator's private signing key. Cannot be used with
[`--encrypted-keystore-validator-file`](#encrypted-keystore-validator-file)

#### withdrawal-public-key

```bash tab="Syntax"
teku validator register --withdrawal-public-key=<KEY>
```

```bash tab="Command Line"
teku validator register --withdrawal-public-key=b65c2a1dc6a8eaadae03d5849dd6ac614b32dc5f8af37e2eb4ced0c72fd69fabe90fc783b0435f5a36ff1338385ef837
```

Validators public withdrawal key.
